feat(curriculum): add Movie Ticket Booking Calculator workshop to Python cert (#64866)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/blocks/workshop-movie-ticket-booking-calculator/6958dfa0c74b237e1b56ce04.md

---
id: 6958dfa0c74b237e1b56ce04
title: Step 7
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-7
---

# --description--

The user qualify for a membership discount if they are a member.

First, create a variable named `discount` and set its value to `0`. This will store the discount the user gets on the movie ticket.

Then, create an `if` statement to check if `is_member` is `True`.

> You should update the `discount` value to `3` and print `User qualify for membership discount` inside the body of `if` statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside the body of `if` statement, update the `discount` value to `3` and print `User qualify for membership discount` to the terminal.
```

---
id: 6958dfa0c74b237e1b56ce04
title: Step 7
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-7
---

# --description--

The user qualify for a membership discount if they are a member.

First, create a variable named `discount` and set its value to `0`. This will store the discount the user gets on the movie ticket.

> 

Reviewer: I realized that we need to add an explanation of truthiness here. So maybe it's better to split this step further.

- step-7
> The user qualify for a membership discount if they are a member.
>
> Create a variable named `discount` and set its value to `0`. This will store the discount the user gets on the movie ticket.
- new step-8
> In Python, `if` conditions don’t have to compare values explicitly to `True` or `False`. Instead, they rely on the truthiness of values. Truthy values evaluate to `True` in a boolean context, such as the condition of an `if` statement. These include non-zero numbers, non-empty strings, and the boolean value `True`.
> ```py
> if value:
>    print('value is truthy')
> ```
> Create an `if` statement to check if `is_member` is truthy. Inside the body of `if` statement, update the `discount` value to `3` and print `User qualify for membership discount` to the terminal.

Author: Yeah that makes sense. I will update the steps.

Then, create an `if` statement to check if `is_member` is `True`.

Inside the body of `if` statement, update the `discount` value to `3` and print `User qualify for membership discount` to the terminal.

# --hints--

You should declare a variable named `discount`.

```js
({ test: () => (runPython(`assert _Node(_code).has_variable("discount")`)) })
```

You should assign the integer value `0` to `discount`.

```js
({ test: () => (runPython(`
assert _Node(_code).find_variable("discount").is_equivalent("discount = 0")
`)) })
```

> You should have an `if` statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should have three `if` statements in your code.
```

```js
({ test: () => (runPython(`assert _Node(_code).find_ifs()[2]`)) })
```

The if statement condition should be `is_member`.

```js
({ test: () => (runPython(`
assert _Node(_code).find_ifs()[2].find_conditions()[0].is_equivalent("is_member")
`)) })
```

> You should assign the integer value `3` to `discount` variable inside your `if` statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should assign the integer value `3` to `discount` variable inside your new `if` statement.
```

```js
({ test: () => (runPython(`
assert _Node(_code).find_ifs()[2].find_bodies()[0].find_variable("discount").is_equivalent("discount = 3")
`)) })
```

> You should print `User qualify for membership discount` inside your `if` statement. Remember to surround the message with single or double quotes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should print `User qualify for membership discount` inside your new `if` statement. Remember to surround the message with single or double quotes.
```
